Bb chapter 2 (#690)
mlr-org/mlr3book: book/chapters/chapter2/data_and_basic_modeling.qmd

For example, predicting a car's miles per gallon (target) based on the car's properties (features) such as horsepower and the number of gears is a supervised learning problem, which we will return to several times in this book.
In `mlr3`, we refer to datasets, and their associated metadata as `r index('tasks')` (@sec-tasks).
The term 'task' is used to refer to the prediction problem that we are trying to solve.
Tasks are defined by the features used for prediction and the targets to predict, so there can be multiple tasks associated with any given dataset.
For example, predicting miles per gallon (mpg) from horsepower is one task, predicting horsepower from mpg is another task, and predicting the number of gears from the car's model is yet another task.

Supervised learning can be further divided into `r index('regression', aside = TRUE)` -- which is the prediction of numeric target values, e.g. predicting a car's mpg -- and `r index('classification', aside = TRUE)` -- which is the prediction of categorical values/labels, e.g., predicting a car's model.

> @sec-special also discusses other tasks, such `r index('cost-sensitive classification', "cost-sensitive", parent = "classification")` or `r index('unsupervised learning')`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@sec-special also discusses other tasks, including `r index('cost-sensitive classification', "cost-sensitive", parent = "classification")` and `r index('unsupervised learning')`.
```

For any supervised learning task, the goal is to build a `r index('model')` that captures the relationship between the features and target, often with the goal of `r index('training', "model training")` the model to learn relationships about the data so it can make predictions for new and previously unseen data.
A `r index('model', aside = TRUE)` is formally a mapping from a feature vector to a prediction.

> A prediction can take many forms depending on the task; for classification, it can be a predicted label, or a set of predicted probabilities or scores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A prediction can take many forms depending on the task; for example, in classification this can be a predicted label, or a set of predicted probabilities or scores.
```

As many machine learning models do not work properly with arbitrary UTF8 names, `mlr3` defaults to throwing an error if any of the column names passed to `r ref("as_task_regr()")` (and other task constructors) contain a non-ASCII character or do not comply with R's variable naming scheme.
Therefore, we recommend converting names with `r ref("make.names()")` if possible.

> You can bypass this check by setting `options(mlr3.allow_utf8_names = TRUE)` (but do not be surprised if errors occur later, especially when passing objects down to other packages).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can bypass this check by setting `options(mlr3.allow_utf8_names = TRUE)` (but do not be surprised if errors occur later, especially when passing objects to other packages).
```

`Learner`s encapsulate a machine learning algorithm and its `r index('hyperparameters')`, which affect *how* the algorithm is run and can be set by the user.
Hyperparameters may affect how a model is trained or how it makes predictions and deciding how to set hyperparameters can require expert knowledge.

> Hyperparameters can be optimized automatically (@sec-optimization), however, in this chapter, we show how to set them manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hyperparameters can be optimized automatically (@sec-optimization), but in this chapter we will focus on how to set them manually.
```

> However, for this chapter, we will only discuss manual setting of hyperparameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

lrn_rpart$param_set
```

The output above is a `r ref("ParamSet", aside = TRUE)` object, supplied by the `r ref_pkg("paradox")` package.
These objects provide information on hyperparameters including their name (`id`), data type (`class`), technically valid ranges for hyperparameter values (`lower`, `upper`), the number of levels possible if the data type is categorical (`nlevels`), the default value from the underlying package (`default`), and finally the set value (`value`).
The second column references classes defined in `r ref_pkg("paradox")` that determine the class of the parameter and the possible values it can take.
@tbl-parameters-classes lists the possible hyperparameter types, all of which inherit from `r ref("Param")`.

> | Hyperparameter Class | Description                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Hyperparameter Class | Hyperparameter Type                          |
```

| -----------------  | ---------------------------------- |

> | `r ref("ParamDbl", index = TRUE)`  | Real-valued (numeric) parameters     |
> | `r ref("ParamInt", index = TRUE)`  | Integer parameters                   |
> | `r ref("ParamFct", index = TRUE)`  | Categorical (factor) parameters      |
> | `r ref("ParamLgl", index = TRUE)`  | Logical / Boolean parameters         |
> | `r ref("ParamUty", index = TRUE)`  | Untyped parameters                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `r ref("ParamDbl", index = TRUE)`  | Real-valued (numeric)     |
| `r ref("ParamInt", index = TRUE)`  | Integer                   |
| `r ref("ParamFct", index = TRUE)`  | Categorical (factor)      |
| `r ref("ParamLgl", index = TRUE)`  | Logical / Boolean         |
| `r ref("ParamUty", index = TRUE)`  | Untyped                   |
```

lrn_rpart$param_set
```

The output above is a `r ref("ParamSet", aside = TRUE)` object, supplied by the `r ref_pkg("paradox")` package.
These objects provide information on hyperparameters including their name (`id`), data type (`class`), technically valid ranges for hyperparameter values (`lower`, `upper`), the number of levels possible if the data type is categorical (`nlevels`), the default value from the underlying package (`default`), and finally the set value (`value`).
The second column references classes defined in `r ref_pkg("paradox")` that determine the class of the parameter and the possible values it can take.
@tbl-parameters-classes lists the possible hyperparameter types, all of which inherit from `r ref("Param")`.

| Hyperparameter Class | Description                          |
| -----------------  | ---------------------------------- |
| `r ref("ParamDbl", index = TRUE)`  | Real-valued (numeric) parameters     |
| `r ref("ParamInt", index = TRUE)`  | Integer parameters                   |
| `r ref("ParamFct", index = TRUE)`  | Categorical (factor) parameters      |
| `r ref("ParamLgl", index = TRUE)`  | Logical / Boolean parameters         |

> | `r ref("ParamUty", index = TRUE)`  | Untyped parameters                   |

Reviewer: Maybe change column 2 title to "Parameter Type" and then you don't need to write "parameters" each time in the columns?

* `keep_model` must be a "logical" (`ParamLgl`) taking values `TRUE` or `FALSE` with default `FALSE`
* `xval` must be an "integer" (`ParamInt`) taking values between `0` and `Inf` with a default of `10` and has a set value of `0`.

> In rare cases (`mlr3` tries to minimize it as much as possible), hyperparameters are initialized to values which deviate from the default in the underlying package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In rare cases (we try to minimize it as much as possible), hyperparameters are initialized to values which deviate from the default in the underlying package.
```

* `keep_model` must be a "logical" (`ParamLgl`) taking values `TRUE` or `FALSE` with default `FALSE`
* `xval` must be an "integer" (`ParamInt`) taking values between `0` and `Inf` with a default of `10` and has a set value of `0`.

> In rare cases (`mlr3` tries to minimize it as much as possible), hyperparameters are initialized to values which deviate from the default in the underlying package.

Reviewer: I think an active voice makes more sense. It isn't `mlr3` that decides on the changes it is us making an active decision. Currently it sounds like software makes this decision

```

In this experiment, we loaded the predefined task `penguins`, which is based on the `r ref("palmerpenguins::penguins")` dataset, then partitioned the data into training and test splits.

> We loaded the featureless classification baseline (using the default which always predicts the most common class in the training data, but which also has the option of predicting random response values) and a classification decision tree, then the accuracy measure (number of correct predictions divided by total number of predictions), trained our models and finally made and scored predictions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We loaded the featureless classification baseline (using the default which always predicts the most common class in the training data, but which also has the option of predicting (unifomly or weighted) random response values) and a classification decision tree, then the accuracy measure (number of correct predictions divided by total number of predictions), trained our models and finally made and scored predictions.
```

> We loaded the featureless classification baseline (using the default which always predicts the most common class in the training data, but which also has the option of predicting (unifomly or weighted) random response values) and a classification decision tree, then the accuracy measure (number of correct predictions divided by total number of predictions), trained our models and finally made and scored predictions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We loaded the featureless classification baseline (using the default which always predicts the most common class in the training data, but which also has the option of predicting (uniformly or weighted) random response values) and a classification decision tree, then the accuracy measure (number of correct predictions divided by total number of predictions), trained our models and finally made and scored predictions.
```

```

In this experiment, we loaded the predefined task `penguins`, which is based on the `r ref("palmerpenguins::penguins")` dataset, then partitioned the data into training and test splits.

> We loaded the featureless classification baseline (using the default which always predicts the most common class in the training data, but which also has the option of predicting random response values) and a classification decision tree, then the accuracy measure (number of correct predictions divided by total number of predictions), trained our models and finally made and scored predictions.

Reviewer: Random draws but from the empirical distribution right?

The key difference in usage is that you will need to ensure your selected measure evaluates the prediction type of interest.`r index(NULL, "$predict_type", parent = "Measure", code = TRUE)`
To evaluate `"response"` predictions, you will need measures with `predict_type = "response"`, or to evaluate probability predictions you will need `predict_type = "prob"`.
The easiest way to find these measures is by filtering the `r ref("mlr_measures")` dictionary:

```{r}
as.data.table(msr())[
    task_type == "classif" & predict_type == "prob" &
    !sapply(task_properties, function(x) "twoclass" %in% x)]
```

We also filtered to remove any measures that have the `"twoclass"` property as this would conflict with our `"multiclass"` task.
We need to use `sapply` for this, the `task_properties` column is a list column.
We can evaluate the quality of our probability predictions and response predictions simultaneously by providing multiple measures:

```{r}
measures = msrs(c("classif.mbrier", "classif.logloss", "classif.acc"))
prediction$score(measures)
```

> The `r index('accuracy')` measure evaluates the `"response"` predictions whereas the `r index('Brier score')` (`"classif.mbrier"`, squared difference between predicted probabilities and the truth) and `r index('logloss')` (`"classif.logloss"`, negative logarithm of the predicted probability for the true class) are evaluating the probability predictions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `r index('accuracy')` measure evaluates the `"response"` predictions whereas the `r index('Brier score', lower = FALSE)` (`"classif.mbrier"`, squared difference between predicted probabilities and the truth) and `r index('logloss')` (`"classif.logloss"`, negative logarithm of the predicted probability for the true class) are evaluating the probability predictions.
```

#### Thresholding {.unnumbered .unlisted}

> The final big difference with regression to discuss is `r index('thresholding', aside = TRUE)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The final big difference compared to regression we will discuss is `r index('thresholding', aside = TRUE)`.
```

print(plt)
```

> Whilst this model may appear to have good performance on the surface, in fact, it just ignores all 'bad' customers -- this can also create very big problems here, or in healthcare tasks and other settings where `r index('false positives')` cost more than `r index('false negatives')` (see @sec-cost-sens for cost-sensitive classification).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whilst this model may appear to have good performance on the surface, in fact, it just ignores all 'bad' customers -- this can create big problems in this finance example, as well as in healthcare tasks and other settings where `r index('false positives')` cost more than `r index('false negatives')` (see @sec-cost-sens for cost-sensitive classification).
```
